EMPLOYMENT JKL Capital Management, LLC CEO
Campbell & Co Senior Researcher
PlusFunds Senior Managing Director
World Bank Principal Investment Officer
Carlyle Asset Management Group Vice-President
Morgan Stanley Quantitative Strategist

JIM K. LIEW, Ph.D. Mobile: 917-733-1150, E-mail: jimkliew@gmail.com

Woodstock, Maryland

March 2009 to present

Multi-Strategy hedge fund that allocates across event, idiosyncratic, value, and

quant strategies. Markets traded include global stocks, etfs, futures, and fx.

Manage a team of five financial engineers who are currently building different

aspects of the business.

Towson, Maryland

Feb 2007 to Feb 2009

Researched and implemented systematic global futures trading strategies.

Strategies trade futures markets across equities, bonds, FX, energies, and

commodities. Hired with mandate to build large capacity (+$1billion) models.

Contributed significantly to development of and revisions to transaction cost

and trade impact model. Built sector rotation multi-factor model trading across

US GIC sectors, employing PCA/ICA extracted from US sector prices,

European sector prices, macro variables, and fundamental variables.

New York, New York

Nov 2005 to May 2006

Created customized solutions for institutional clients to tailor-fit their investment objectives: "Best-Ideas-Portfolio," "Pure-Dynamic-Alpha," and "Hedge Fund Beta: Merger Arbitrage Index." Led the effort in sourcing and

adding new managers to the Manager Access Program a separately managed

account platform with over sixty hedge fund managers across nine different

strategies. Managed team of five people.

Washington, D.C.

July 2003 to April 2004

Co-managed $750 million investment portfolio of hedge funds with capacity to

investments up to $1.2 billion. Built proprietary I-PAM model to evaluate

incremental changes to existing portfolio and assembled state-of-the-art risk

management platform.

Washington, D.C.

December 2001 to June 2003

Built and implemented the proprietary alternative investment allocation model

that combines asset allocation with hedge fund component investing. The

model provides factor exposures and risk analytics for the resultant portfolio.

Performed due diligence on event driven arbitrage, fixed income arbitrage,

convertible arbitrage, long/short, statistical arbitrage, volatility arbitrage, and

equity market neutral managers. Third hire at CAMG that grew to a $600

million fund before departure.

New York and Hong Kong

September 1998 to February 2000

Solely responsible for providing quantitative support for equity derivative traders and clients. Constructed and re-balanced clients' global portfolios

optimized to track MSCI indices using Basket Link. Experienced with

employing Barra models in the rebalancing process. Educated and trained

clients on creating and interpreting portfolio analytic reports: Attribution,

Tracking Error, Exposures, etc. Created optimal hedging strategies using Monte Carlo simulations, constructed dynamic portfolio "alpha" strategies,

built industry/sector neutral optimal tracking portfolios for index arbitrage

strategies, and worked on transaction cost models for program traders.

Responsible for quantitative modeling and research. Examined macro and

inter/intra-industry fundamental factors in US equity markets. Wrote articles in the monthly QS derivative publications.

ACADEMIC POSITIONS AND OTHERS

Columbia University
Johns Hopkins NYU's Stern

New York, New York

Summer 2005, 2006, 2010

Adjunct Professor

Taught Statistical Arbitrage, first time offered at Columbia and Johns Hopkins. Taught Topics in Hedge Fund Strategies at NYU's Stern School of Business.

Editorial Advisory Board Journal of Portfolio Management Faculty Advisor to Stern Investment Management & Research's Langone Student Run
Investment Fund
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the NYU Stern Hedge Fund Association

Goldman Sachs & Co. Instructor

New York, New York

Summer 1998

Taught bond mathematics and statistics to incoming analysts in the asset management

division.

EDUCATION Columbia Business School
University of Chicago

Ph.D. (1999) and M.Phil. (1998) in Finance and Economics Advisors: Franklin Edwards and Maria Vassalou Columbia Graduate School of Business Doctoral Fellowship
B.A. (1991) in Mathematics General Honors, Member of Sigma Xi

PUBLISHED PAPERS AND OTHERS

"Investing Under Inflation Risk," 2012, Working Paper SSRN.
Member of Editorial Advisory Board, Journal of Portfolio Management, November 2011 to present "Institutional-Grade Risk Management Policy: Is it Possible in Practice?," Forthcoming as Invited Editorial
Journal of Portfolio Management, Spring 2012. "US Mean-Reversion Examined," Working Paper, 2010. "Quantitative Topics in Hedge Fund Investing," Journal of Portfolio Management, 2005. "Hedge Fund Index Investing Examined," Journal of Portfolio Management, 2003. "Bifurcated Fund Analysis Model," MFA Reporter, November 2002. "Can Book-to-Market, Size and Momentum Be Risk Factors That Predict Economic Growth?," Journal of
Financial Economics, Volume 57, Issue 2, August 2000. "Hedge Funds versus Managed Futures as Asset Classes," Summer 1999. "Managed Commodity Funds," Journal of Futures Markets, Volume 19, No. 4, 1999.

