Resume
Nancy Hall
Office: 1101 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, MD 21202 Home: 20 Osprey Way, Elkton MD 21920
Mobile (410) 978-7632 Land-line (410) 962-8970 nancy@amazingnonprofits.com www.amazingnonprofits.com
ACADEMIC PREPARATION:
MBA, Harvard Business School, Boston, Massachusetts
Concentrations: Marketing, Managerial Economics
BA in Political Science, New College, Sarasota, Florida, 1968
ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE:
Instructor, 2001-present Johns Hopkins University, Institute for Policy Studies Johns Hopkins University, Advanced Academic Programs Courses: Principles of Nonprofit Management, Nonprofit Financial Management
Instructor, 2009 - 2012 University of Maryland Baltimore County, Graduate Program Applied Sociology Courses: Nonprofits and the Internal Environment, Nonprofits and the External Environment
Instructor , 1998- 2010 University of Maryland School of Social Work Course: Financial and Information Systems in Nonprofits and Government
Instructor, 2000 - 2004 Goucher College, Welch Center for Graduate and Professional Studies Courses: Introduction to Nonprofit Management, Financial Management in Nonprofits
Instructor, Summer 2002 College of Notre Dame (Baltimore, Maryland), Certificate in Leadership of Nonprofit Organizations Course: The Practitioners Role in Starting Nonprofit Organizations
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:
HB Management and Financial Services, Trading as 501(c) Solutions, 1986 ­ Present Owner. Provides consulting services to nonprofits and government. A sample of clients include:
Advocates for Children and Youth, Athletes Serving Athletes, Big Brothers Big Sisters Greater Chesapeake, Bolton Street Synagogue, College Park Arts Exchange, Delaware Association of Nonprofit Organizations, Delaware Historical Society, Esophageal Cancer Action Network, Family Tree, Fuel Fund of Maryland, Image Center, Maryland Family Network, Mental Health Association of Maryland, Second Chance, Second Family, State of Maryland Department of Education, and Textile Society of America.

Services include strategic and business training, planning and execution; financial and accounting oversight; and Executive Director and Finance Director recruiting.
Maryland Association of Nonprofit Organizations Service Corporation, 1992 ­ 2009(Part-time) Chief Executive Officer. The Service Corporation, the for profit subsidiary of the Maryland
Association of of Nonprofit Organizations, provides health benefits, workers compensation insurance, directors and officers insurance, energy purchasing, and other services to more than 700 nonprofits in Maryland. Because of discounts, these buying programs save the participating organizations more than $1 million annually. In 1992, a small benefits program was transferred to Maryland Nonprofits from another entity. Since that time, the program has grown from 100 participating organizations, has added new services, and generates a significant portion of Maryland Nonprofits' unresticted revenue.
Maryland Association of Nonprofit Organizations Senior Advisor and Consultant, 2004-2009 Provided technical assistance to members of
Maryland Nonprofits (more that 300 nonprofit helped each year). Did training on strategic planning, finance, marketing, and how to start a nonprofit. Acted as consultant, strategist, and evaluator for other staff at the Maryland Association of Nonprofit Organizations.
Director of Finance, Marketing, and Member Services, 1992-2004(Part-time). Crafted and implemented the strategies that grew membership from 129 to 1,600 members. Designed and introduced the financial systems which enabled the organization to reach $3million in annual expenses.
Friends of the Family, 1990 ­ 1992 (Part-time) Director of Finance.
Health and Welfare Council, 1986-1990 (Part-time) Director of Finance.
Hutzler's Department Store Comptroller, Director of Planning
Gimbel's Department Store Director of Management Information Systems
RESEARCH INTERESTS:
Factors indicating success in newly established nonprofit organizations. Financial predictors for nonprofit organizations. Impact of nonprofit organizations on the economy.
CERTIFICATIONS AND LICENCES
WBE ­ Baltimore City WBE ­ Maryland Property & Casualty Insurance Producer ­ State of Maryland
PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS:
ARNOVA HBS Social Enterprise Alumni Association The Alliance
HONORS AND AWARDS:
New College Alumni/ae Fellowship, 1990, to teach Not-for-profit Entrepreneurship. First recipient of award.
Century Club, Harvard Business School

